IAM // Identity & Access Management is where you manage your AWS users and their access to AWS accounts and services.
the common use of IAM is to manage:
	users
	groups
	IAM Access Policies
	Roles
by default, the root user has full administrative rights and access to every part of the account.
by default, any new users create in AWS account are created with NO access to any AWS services ( except the ablity to login)
for all users (besides the root user) permissions must be given that grant access to AWS services. 
	
	IAM Initial configuration;
	
AWS best practices: Guidelines that recommend settings, configurations and architecture for the purpose of having a high level of security, accessibility and efficiency

when a new AWS root account is created it is best practice to compliete the tasks listed in IAM under "sevcurity Staus"

Those tasks include:
	Delete your root access keys
	Activate MFA on your root account
	create individual IAM users
	user group to assign permissions
	apply an IAM password policy

	What is MFA?
	Multi-Factor Authentication, it is an additional layer of security on your root account that is provided by a 3rd party, and it takes the form of a continually-changing, random six digit code.

create individual IAM users:-

AWS best practice is to Never use your root access for day to day use.
If you want full admin access for yourself create an IAM user and attach the 'AdministratorAccess" policy to it.
Then use that account as your daily driver.

user group to assign permissions:-
	it can often be more convenient and efficient to setup groups and assign permissions to the group rather than manage each user individually.

apply an IAM password policy:-
	A password policy dictates the format and expiration rules that must be followed when a user creates or modifies their password.
	These rules include :- 
		Length
		case requirements
		Number requiredments
		Non-alphanumeric requirements
		password expirationpassword reuse
		user rights to change the own password
		Administrator reset requirements
		
VPC // 	Virtual Private Cloud
AWS Availability Zones:
Geographically isolated zones within a region that house AWS resources
accessibility zones(AZs) are where seprate physical AWS data centers are located.
multiple AZs in each region provide resundancy for AWS resources in that reagion.

what is a VPC?
	A private sub-section of AWS that you control in which you can place AWS resources (such as EC2 instances and Data bases) have full control over who has access to the AWS resources that you place inside your VPC.

Amazon VPC lets you provision a logically isolated section of the AWS cloud where you can launch AWS resources in a virtual network that you define. you have complete control over your virtual networking environment, including selection of your own IP address range, creation of subnets and configuration of route tables and network gatewys.

Note: when you create an AWS account , a default VPC is created for you. Including the Standard components that are needed make it functional.
	Internet Gateway
	A route tanle (with predified routes to the default subnets)
	A network Access control lIst(with predefired rules for access)
	subnets to provison AWS resources in (such as EC2 intances).

what is an IGW?
A combination of hardware and software that provides your private network with a route to the world outside9meaning internet) of the VPC.
	Internet Gateway is a horizontally scaled, redundant and high available VPC components that allows communication between instances in your VPC and the internet. it therefore imposes no availability risks or bandwidth constraints on your network traffic.
Note:-
		your edfault VPC already has an IGW attached.
routables rules and details you need to know:
	only 1 IGW can be attached to vpc at the time
	An IGW cannot be detatched from VPC while there are active AWS resources in the VPC(such as an EC2 instance or RDS Database)

What is a Route Table?	
A route table contains a set of rules called routes that are used to determine where network traffic is directed.

Note: - your default VPC already has a main route table.
Route table rules and details you need to know:
	unlike an IGW, you can have multiple active route tables in a VPC
	you cannot delete a route table if it has dependancies (associated subnets)
	
What is a NACL?
Network Access Control List is an optional layer of security for your VPC that act as a firewall for controlling trafic in and out of one or more subnets.	
 
	Note:- ypur default VPC already has an NACL in place and associated with the default subnets.
		
		Rules are evaluated from lowest to highest based on "rule#"
		the first rule found that applies to the traffic type is immediatly applied, regardless of any rule that come after it (have a higher "rule#"0
		The  default NACL allows all traffic to the default subnets.
		any new NACLs you create Deny all traffic by default.
		A subnets can only be associated with one NACL as a timeAn NACL allows or denies traffic from entering a subnet, Once inside the subnet other AWS resources.(EC2 Instances) may have an additional layer of (security group).
		
		
What is a Subnet?		
A subnet, short for subnetwork, is a sub-section of a network. Generally a subnet includes all the computers in a specific location. Cricling back to the home netwok anology we used in the VPC Basics lesson, if you think about your ISP being a network then your home netwok can be considered a subnet of your ISP network.

When you create a VPC, it spans all of the Availability Zones in the Region. Ater creating a VPC, you can add one or more subnets in each Availability zone. Each subnet mustreside entirely within one availability zone and cannot span zones.

Note:- Your Default VPC already has subnet created by default
	Subnet rules and details you nee to know
		Subnets Must be associated with a route table
		A PUBLIC subnet HAS a route to the internet
		A PRIVATE subnet does not have a route to the internet.
		A subnet is located in ONE specific Availabilty Zone.
		
Availability Zones:-
	High Availability:
			creating your architecture in such a way that your system is alway available (or has the least amout of downtime as possible)
	what High Availability "sound"like:
			I can always access my data in the cloud
			My website never crashes and is always availability to my customers
	Fault Tolerant:
			The ability of your system to withstand failures in one (or more) of its components and still remain availabile.
	what Fault Tolerant"sound" like.
			one of my web servers failed, but my backup server immediatly took over.
			ifsometing in my systemfails, it canrepair itself.

Availability Zone and VPCs:
	any AWS resource that you launch (like EC2/RDs) must be placed in a VPC subnet. Any given subnet must be located in an AvailabilityZone. ou can (and sound) utilize multiple Availabilty and Fault Tolerant systems.
AWS Definition/Explanation:
	when you create a VPC, it spans all of the Availability Zones in the region. Ater Creating a VPC, you can add one or more subnets in each AvailabilityZone. Each subnet must reside entirely within one Availablity zone and cannot span zones.

	AvailabilityZones are distinct locations that are engineered to be isolated from failures in other Availability zones. by laching instances in seprate Availabilty zones you can protect your applications from the failure of a single location.
	
Note:-  your default VPC already has a subnet created by default.


S3 //		Simple Storage Service

what is S3:-
An online, bulk storage service that you can access from almost any device.
	Amazon S3 has a simple web services interface that you can use to store and retrieve any amount of dat, at any time, from anyware on the web. It gives any users access to the same highly scalable, reliable, fast, inexpensive data storage infrastructure that Amazon uses to run its own global network of web sites. The service aims to maximize benefits of scale and to pass those benefits on to users.
 
S3 Basics:  Components and structure

BASICS:
	S3= Simple Storage Service
	It is AWS's primary storage service.
	You can store any type of file in S3
	
Buckets:
	Root level "Folders" you create in S3 are referred to as buckets.
	Any subfolders you create in a bucket is referred to as a folder
	
Objects:
	Files stored in a bucket are referred to as objects.
	
Regions:
	When you create a bucket, you must select a specific region for it to exist. This mean that any data you upload to the S3 bucket will be physically located in a data center in that reagion.
	Best practice is to select the region that is physically closest to you, to reduce transfer latency.
						(or)
	if you are serving files to a custome based in a certain area of the world, create the bucket in a reagion closes to your coustomers (to reduce latency for your coustmers)

Buckets and Folders:

Ceating an S3 Buckets:
	Choose a bucket name:
		Bucket name must follow a set of rules:
		 Bucket name must be unique across ALL of AWS.
		 Bucket names must be 3 to 63 characters in length.
		 Bucket names can only contain lowercase letters, numbers and hyphens.
		 Bucket names must not be formatted as an IP address
	Select a Reagion:
	
	Uploading (Important) an object to a Bucket;
		  Navigate into a bucket
		  Under Actions select upload
		  Select a file to upload
		  click start upload
	Creating a Folder in a Bucket:
		  Navigate into a bucket
		  Click on Creat Folder
		  Give the folder a name
		  
BUckets, Folders & Object Properties:
		Bucket Level Properties;
			General Info
			Permissions
			Static Web Hosting
			Logging
			Events
			Versioning
			Lifecycle
			Cross-Region Replication
			Tags
			Requester Pays
			Transfer Acceleration
		Folder Level Properties:
			General Info
			Details
		Object Level Properties:
			General Info	
			Details
			Permissions
			MetaData
		
What is a storage class?
	A storage class represents the classification assigned to each object in S3
		Availbile storage classes include:
		Standard
		Reduced Redundancy Storage (RRS)
		Infrequent Access(S3-IA)
		Glacier
	Each Storage Class has varying attributes that dicate things like:
		Storage cost
		Object availability
		object durability
		Frequency of access(to the object)
	Each object must be assigned a storage class("Standard is the default class)
	you can change the storage class of an object at any time (for the most part)
	
S3 Storage Classes:
	Standard:
		Designed for general, all-purpose storage
		is the default storage option
		99.999999999% Object durability(eleven nines)
		99.99% object availability
		is the most expensive storage class
	Reduced Redundancy Storage (RRS)
		Designed for non-critical, reproducible objects.
		99.99% object durability
		99.99% object availability
		Is less expensive than the standard storage class.
	Infrequent Access(S3-IA)
		Designed for objects that you do not access frequently, but must be immediately available when accessed.
		99.999999999% Object durability(eleven nines)
		99.90% object availability
		Is less expensive than the standard/RRS storage class.
	Glacier:
		Designed for log-term archival storage.
		May take several hours for objects stored in glacier to be retrived.
		99.999999999% Object durability
		is the cheapest S3 storage class(very low cost)

https://aws.amazon.com/s3/pricing/

		Object Durability is the percent(%) over a one year time period that a file stored in S3 will Not Be lost.
	For object durability of 99.999999999%(11 nines) that means there is a 0.000000001% chance of a file in S3 being lost in a year.
								(OR)
	if you have 10,000 files stored in S3 (@11 nines durability), then you can expect to lose one file 10 million years.
	
		Object Availability is the percent(%) over a one year time period that a file stored in S3 Will be accessable. 
	For object availability of 99.99% that means there is a 0.01% chance that you wont be able to access a file sored in S3 in a year.
								(OR)
	For every 10,000 hours, you can expect a total of one hour for which a file may not be availabile to access
S3 Storage Classess:
	Setting/Changing storage class:
		by default, all new objects uploaded to S3 are set to the Standard storage class
		If you want new objects to have a different storage class, then you need to set the proper setting prior to or during the upload process. you can do this by either.
			Selecting another storage class during the upload process(set details)
			using object lifecycle policies
	For the following storage classes:
		standard
		Reduced redundancy Storage (RRS)
		Infequent Access(S3-IA)
		you can manually switch the object storage class amoungts them(at any time) by changing the storage class in the objects properties.
	To move an object to the Glacier Storage Class:
		you need to use object lifecycles.
		the changes to Glacier may take 1-2 days to take effect.
What is an object lifecycle?
	An object lifecycle is a set of rules that automate the migration of an objects storage class to a different storage class (or deletion), based on specified time intervals.
For example:-
i have a work file that i am going to access eveyday for next 30 days
after 30 days, i may only need to access that file once a week for the 60 nex days.
after which (90 days total) i will probably never access the filw again but want to keep it just in case.

by using a lifecycle policy, i can automate the pocess of chaging rh file storage class to meet my usage needs and keep my S3 storage cost as low a possible.

The scenario:
i have a work file that i am going to access eveyday for next 30 days
after 30 days, i may only need to access that file once a week for the 60 nex days.
after which (90 days total) i will probably never access the filw again but want to keep it just in case.

what is the best solutation to meet the usage needs and minimize storage cost?

The solutation:
Days 0-29 (30days)
usage needs = very frequently
Best fit Storage Class= Standard
Cost=highest cost tier

Days 30-89 (60days)
usage needs = infrequently
Best fit Storage Class= Infrequent Access
Cost=Middle cost tier

Days 90+
usage needs = Most likely never needed
Best fit Storage Class= Glacier
Cost=lowest cost tier


Object Lifecycle:  // Lifecycle Management

lifecycles functionality is located on the bucket level.
however, a lifecycle policy can be applied to:
	the entire bucket (applied all the objects in the bucket)
	One specific folder with a bucket(applied to all the objects in that folder).
	One Specific object within a bucket
you can always delete a lifecycle policy or manually change the storage class back to whatever you like.


S3 Permissions:

what are S3 Permissions?
	S3 permissions are what allow you to have granular control over who can view access and use specific buckets and objects.
	
	Permissions fuctionality can be found on the bucket And object level
	on the bucket level you can control(for each bucket individually)
		List:who can see the bucket name
		upload/Delete:Objects to (upload) or in the bucket (delete)
		View permissions
		Edit permissions: Add/edit/delete permissions
NOTE:Bucket level permission are generally used for internal access control
	on the object level, you can control:(for each object individually)
	open/Download
	View permissions
	Edit permissions
Note: you can share specific objects (via a link) with the anyone in the world.

S3 Permissions:
Sharing an S3 object with the world:
	on the object, create the following permission:
		Grantee=Everyone
		"Check" Open/Download
	under Actions, select"make Public"
	The Link under Properties is now live and anyone that has it can directly download the Object.
	Note: to remove public access to the object, either delete the permission
what is S3 Versioning?
	S3 versioning is a feature that keeps track of and stores all old/new versions of an objects so that you can access and use an older version if you like.
	
		versioning is either ON or OFF
		Once it is turned ON, you can only "suspend" versioning. It cannot be fully turned OFF.
		Suspending Versioning Only prevents versioning going forward. All previous objects with versions will still maintain thier older versions.
		versioning can only be set on the bucket level and applies to ALL objects in the bucket



EC2 = Elastic Compute Cloud  //Think of EC2 as your basic desktop computer.
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud provides scalable computing capacity in the Amazon webservices cloud. using amazon EC2 eliminates your need to inverst in hardware up front, so you can develop applications faster. you can use amazon EC2 to launch as many or as few virtual servers as you need. Configure security and networking and manage storage. Amazon EC2 enables you to scale up or down to handle changes in requirements or spikes in propularity, reducing your need for forecaast traffic.

EC2 BASICS:- 
Ec2 Instance Purchasing Options (Most Common)
On-Demond:- purchasing allows you to choose any instance type you like and provision/terminate it at any time (ondemand).
	is the most expensive purchaseing option
	is the most flexiable purchasing option
	you are only charged when the instance is running (and billed by the hour)
	you can provision/terminate an on-demand instance at anytime.
Reserved:
  Reserved purchasing allows you to purchase	an instancefor a set time period of one or 3 years.
	This allows for a significant price discount over using on-demand.
	you can select to pay upfront, partial upfront, no upfront
	Once you buy a reserved instance, you own it for the selected time period and are responsible for the entire price - regardless of how often you use it.
Spot:- 
	Spot pricing is a way for you to BID on an instance when the spot price is equal to or below your bid price.
		This option allows Amazon to sell the use of unused instances, for short amounts of time at a substantial discount
		Spot prices fluctuate based on supply and demand in the spot marketplace.
		you are hanged by the minute.
		when you have an active bid an instance is provisioned for you when the spot price is equal to or less than you bid price.
		A provisioned instances automatically terminate when the spot price is greater than your bid price.
		
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/instance-purchasing-options.html

EC2 Basics:

How are you charged for using EC2?
	Note: Free Tier use is availabilefor EC2.
Purchasing Options: (most common- not an inclusive list)
	on-demand
	Reserved	
	Spot
Instance Type- the includes processing capacity (think CPU)
	General purpose
	Compute Optimized
	GPU Optimized
	Memory Optimized
	Storage Optimized
EBS Optimized: (n option for higher IOPS performance)

AMI Types(Think operating system):
	Linux (Price varies based on distro/Software packages)
	Windows (price varies based on Version/software packages)
Data Transfer- in/out of the instance.
Region the instance is provisioned in.

		https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/pricing/
AMI // Amazon Machine Image
What is AMI ?
A perconfigured package required to lanch and EC2 instance; includes an operating system, software packages and other required settings.

An Amazon Machine Image provides the information required to lanch an instance, which is a virtual server in the cloud. you specify an  AMI when you launch an instance and you can launch as many instances from the AMI as you need. you can also launch instances from as many different AMIs as you need.

When you create and AMI, you are essentially creating a template that you can use to lanch another EC2 instance that has the exact same components as the original instance.


when you lanch an EC2 Instance the first thing you do is select an AMI
	AMIs come in three main categories:
		Community AMIs:
			Free to use
			Generally with these AMIs you are just selecting the OS you want
		AWS Marketplace AMIs:
			pay to use
			General comes packaged with additional, licenced software
		My AMIs:
			AMIs that you create yourself.
	
Instance Types:- is the CPU (computer power) of your instance.
 when you launch an instance type that you specify determines the hardware of the host computer used for your instence. each instance type offer different computer, memory and storage capabilities and are grouped in instance families based on these capabilities. select an instance type based on the requirements of the application or software tht you plan to run your instance.

 EBS  // Elastic Block Store
  what is EBS?
	EBS is storage volume for an EC2 instance(Think of it as a hard disk)
	
	Amazon EBS provides block level storage volumes for use with EC2 instance. EBS volumes are highly available and reliable storage volumes that can be attached to any running instance that is in the same Availability Zone. EBS volumes that are attached to an EC2 instance are exposed as storage volumes that persist independently from th life of the instance.
what are IOPS // input/output operations per second
the amout of data that can be written to or retrived from EBS per second.
	IOPS are a unit of measure representing input/output operations per second. The operations are measured in KiB, and the underlying drive technology determines the maximum amout of data that a olume type counts as a single I/O. I/O size is capped at 256KiB for SSB Volumes and 1,024 KiB for HDD volumes because SSD volumes handle small or random I/O much more efficiently than HDD volumes.
more IOPS means better volume performance(faster read/write speeds)
EBS volume size. the large the storage size (in GiB), the more IOPS the volume has.
 
Root vs Additional EBS Volumes:
	Every EC2 instance Must have root volume, which may or may not be EBS
	by default, Ebs root volumes are set to be deleted when the instance is terminated. However, you can choose to have EBS volumes persist after termination.
	During the cration of an Ec2 instance(or anytime afterwards) you can add additional EBS volumes to the instance.
	any additional volue can be attached or detached from the instance at any time and in NOT deleted(be default) when the instance is terminated.
	This means that you can swap EBS volumes between different EC2 instance, by detatching it from one and attached it to another.
Snapshots:
	A snapshots is an image of an EBS volume that can be stored as a backup of the volume OR used to create a duplicate.
	Asnapshot is NOT an active EBS volume. you cannot attach or dettach a snapshot to an EC2 instance.
	To restore a snapshot, you need to create a new EBS volume using the snapshot as its template.
what are security Groups?
	security groups are very similar to NACLs in that they allow/deny traffic. However, security groups are found on the instance level(as opposed to the subnet level). in addition, the way allow/deny rules work are different from NACLs.
A security group acts as a virtual firewall that controls the traffic from one or more instances. when you launch an instance, you associate one or more security groups with the instance. you add rules to each security group that allow traffic to or from its associted instances. you can modify the rules for a security group at any time; the new rules are automatically applied to all instance that are associated with the security group. when we decide whether to allow traffic to reach, we evaluate all the rules from all the security groups that are associated with the instance.

NACLs: when you create a new SG ALL inbound traffic is Denied and ALL outbound traffic is allowed by default.
		all traffic is denied unless there is an explicit allow rule for it.
		ther ar no Deny rules only Allow rules.
	
what is IP Addressing?
	providing an EC2 instance with public IP address.
	An IP address is the instances address on the network.
Public and Private IP Addresses:
  Private IP Address:	
	by default all EC2 instances have a private IP address
	private IP addresses allow for instances to communicate with each other as long as they are located in the same VPC(or broader private network).
  Public IP Address:
	EC2 instances can be launched with our without a public IP address(by default), depending on VPC/subnet settings.
	PublicIP addresses are Required for the instance to communicate with the internet.
Note: the default VPC and Subnets are configured so that any new instance that is provisiend has a public IP address.
  
 Launching an EC2 Instance:

Basic steps:
Slecet an AMI
Select an instance Type-configure instance details:
	we are going to use this opportunity to run a BAsh script that installs apache.
		#/bin/bash
		yum update -year
		yum install -y httpd
		service httpd start
	Add storageadd a tag(give the instance a name)
	configure/assign a security group
	review & Launching
	Create & download a key pair
	
connecting to an EC2 Instance(Linux/ssh)
Select the instance
under Actions choose connecting
follow the instructions	
	open a terminal to access the command line
	navigate into the directory that contains the key pair you downloaded
	run the chmod command on the key pair to change its permissionsrun the example command

RDS & DynamoDB: Databases
	in the world of databases there are two main categories:
		Relational Databases know as SQL
		Non-Relational Databases know as NoSQL.
Aws offers services for both types of databases
	RDS for SQL databses
	DynamoDB for NoSQL databases
RDS // Relational Database Service
Essentials Definition: RDS is a SQL database service that provieds a wide range of SQL database options to select from.
	SQL Optional Include:
		Amazon Aurora
		MySQL
		MariaDB
		PostgreSQL
		Oracle(server Oracle options are available)
		Microsoft SQLServer(several Microsoft options are availabile)
Amazon Relational Database  Service is a web service that makes it easier to setup operate, and scale a relational database in the cloud.It provides cost-efficient, resizeable capacity for an industry-standard relational database and manages common database administration tasks.
	what is DynamoDB?
		DynamoDB is a NoSQL Database service. unlike RDS, DynamoDB does NOT provide other NoSQL software options.
	DynamoBD ca replace(or is very similar to)
		MangoDB
		CassandraDB
		Oracle NoSQL
Amazon DynamoDB is a fast and slexible NoSQL database service for all applications that need consistent single-digit millisecond latency at any scale. Its flexiable data model and reliable performance make it a great fit for mobile,web,gaming,ad-tech,IoT and many other applications.

RDS(SQL):
	stored related data in tables (using columns and rows)
	Typically used for very stuctured data, such as contact list.
DynamoDB(NoSQL):
	stored related data in JSON-like, name-value documents 
	Typically used for non-stuctured data, such as cataloging documents.
Database Basic:
RDS Pricing/Cost Overview:
	Free Tier use is availabile for all RDS options Except Aurora
How are you charged for using RDS?
	The RDS engine you choose
		amazon aurora
		mysql
		mariadb
		postgresql
		oracle(server Oracles are availabile)
		Microsoft SQLServer(Several Microsoft ptions are availabile)
	RDS Instance Classes:
		This is very similar to EC2 Instance types
	Purchasing Teams:
		On-Demond
		Reserved
	Database Storage
	Data Transfer in/out of RDS
				https://aws.amazon.com/rds/pricing/
DynamoDB Pricing/Cost Overview:
	Free Tier use is availabile for DynamoDB.
How are you charged for using DynamoDB?
	Provisioned throughput capacity
	indexed data storage
	DynamoDB streams
	reserved capacityData Transfer in/out of DynamoDB
			https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/pricing/
			
Configuring a private subnet group:
	within RDS we need to create a subnet group that contains our two private subnets, This is how we provision the RDS database into a private subnet.
Basic Steps:
	Naviage to subnetgroup
	create DB subnet group
	complete the form, making sure to select our two private subnets.
	Note: two subnets are required to form a subnet group.
Launching an RDS Database:
 Basic Steps:
	select an engine:
		for free tier usage, select MySQL-> Dev/Test Option.
	Specify DB details:
		Instance specifications
		settings
	Configure advanced settings:
		network & security
		  select the private subnet group do not use default
		  publicly Accessible should be set to No.
		Database options
		Backup
		Monitoring
		Maintainance
	Launch DB instance!

	SNS // SIMPLE nOTIFICATION service
AN AWS SERVICE THAT ALLOWS YOU TO AUTOMATE THE SENDING OF EMAIL OR TEST MESSAGE NOTIFICATION, based on events that happen in your AWS account.
 Simple Notifaction Service is a web service that coordinates and manages the delivery or sending of messages to subscribing endpoints or clients. Amazon SNS, there are two types of clients-publishers and subscribers-also referred to as producers and consumers. publishers communicate asynchronously with subscribers by producing and sending a message to a topic, which is a logical access point and communication channel.
Subscribers(i.e., web server,email addresses,Amazon SQS queues,AWS Lambda functions) consume or receive the message or notifaction over one of the supported protocols(i.e.,Amazon SQS,HTTP/S,email,SMS,Lambda)when they are subscribed to the topic. 

CloudWatch // is a services that allows you to monitor various elements of your AWS account.
	Amazon cloud Watch monitors your AWS resources and the applications you run on AWS in real time. you can use Cloudwatch to collect and track metrics, which are variables you can measeure for your resources and applications. cloudWatch alarm send notifaction or automatically make changes to the resources you are monitoring based on rules that you define.
Pricing/Cost Overview:
	Free Tier use is available for CloudWatch.
How are you charged for using CloudWatch?
	Per Dashboard
	Detailed Monitoring for Amazon EC2 Instances
	Amazon CloudWatch custom Metrics
	CloudWatch API request
	CloudWatch logs
	CloudWatch events/custom events
Note:Prices may very depending on region.
		https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/
		
ELB // Elasic Load Balancer
	ELB evenly distribtes traffic EC2 instances that are associated with it.
	a load balancer distriutes incoming application traffic across multiple EC2 instances in multiple availability zones.this increases the fault tolerance of your applications. ELB detects unhealthy instances and routes traffic only to healthy instance.
Auto Scaling // Auto Scaling automates the process of adding (scaling up) or removing (scaling down) EC2 instances based on trafic demand for your application.
Auto scaling helps you ensure that you have the correct number of Amazon EC2 instances availabile to handle the load for your application. you create collections of EC2 instances, called auto scalling groups. you can specify the minimum number of instance in each auto scaling group, and auto scaling ensures that your group never goes below this size. you can specify the maximum number of instances in each auto scaling group and auto scaling ensures that your group never goes above this size. if you specify the desired capacity, either when you create the group or at any time thereafter, auto sclaing ensures that your group has this many instances. if you specify scaling policies, then auto scaling can launch or terminate instances as demand on your application increases or decreases.

Launch Configuration:
		the EC2template used when auto scaling needs to add an additional server to your auto scaling group
auto scaling Group:
		all the rules and settings that govern when an EC2 server is automatically added or removed.
	
what is Route53?
	Route53 is where you configure and manage web domains for websites or applications you host on AWS.
	
	Amazon Route53 performs three main functions:
		Domain registration- Amazon Route53 lets you register domain name such as example.com
		Domain Name System(DNS) service- Amazon Route53 translateds friendly domain name like www.example.com into IP address like 192.168.0.10 Amazon Route53 responds to DNS queries using a global network of authoritative DNS servers, which reduces latency.
		Health Checking- Amazon Route53 sends automated requests over the internet to your application to verity that it's reachable, availabile and functional.
you can use any combination of these functions, for example, youo can use amazon Route53 as both your registrar and your DNS services, or you can use Amazon Route53 as the DNS services for a domain that you registered with another domain register.

what is Lambda?
		Lambda is serverless computing, it is next generation of cloud computing that will replace EC2 instances(for the most part)
		
		AWS Lambda is a copute service that lets you run code without provisioning or managing servers. AWS lambda executes your code only when needed and scales automatically, from a few requests per day to thousands per second. you pay only for the computing time you consume- there is no charge when your code is not running. with AWS Lambda, you can run code for virtually any type of application or backend service all with zero administration. AWS Lambda runs your code on a high-availability compute infrastructure and performs all of the administration of the compute resources, including server and operating system maintenance, capacity provisioning and automatic scalling, code monitoring and logging. all you need to do is dupply your code in on of the languages that AWS Lambda supports(currently Node.js,Java,C#and Python)








